at present many countries of the world
have a lot of outdated t-54 t-55 t59
tanks the Kaka Morozov machine building
design bureaus have developed a set of
measures to modernize these tanks in
order to increase their technical and
combat characteristics modernization
proposes improvement of three components
of the tank its mobility protection and
firepower by request of the customer
this modernization can be done both by
elements and fully modernization of
mobility includes installation of the
850 horsepower 50 D as an engine for
1,000 horsepower five to DFM a engine
which provides for higher specific power
output as compared to the basic time the
highly effective air Killian system and
cooling system ensure a reliable work of
the engine are the conditions of heavy
dust loading and the ambient temperature
ranging from minus 40 degrees Celsius to
plus 55 degrees to reverse and final
drives with automatic gear shifting have
six forward gears and four reverse gears
they give the tank high throat low
response and high reverse feed our
procedure one kilometer per hour as well
as possibility to turn not on their own
is braked track but to pivot
electro-hydraulic control provides for
smooth change of the turning radius in
all gears with the help of the steering
bar the improved fuel system with
additional fuel tanks increases the fuel
distance up to 500 kilometers the new
engine and transmission as well as they
perfected running gear with more power
consuming shock absorbers and support
rollers make it possible for the tank to
move with speed up to 70 kilometers per
hour
on the hard surface roads and we speed
up to 45 km/h / cross country in order
to move on the roads intended for
general use the tank is fitted with a
rubber padded shoe racks the set of
measures aimed to increase the tank
firepower includes installation of the
125 millimeter for 120 millimeter gun as
well as installation of the commander's
hatch with a 12.7 millimeter remotely
controlled anti-aircraft mount
stabilised in two planes the ganas de
nitesite with laser rangefinder and the
guided missile control and a thermal
sight with two plane stabilization
provide for firing from the gun at
ranges up to 2,500 metres and the guided
missile up to 5,000 metres one in static
position and on the move both at daytime
and at night the servo sight makes it
possible to detect targets at ranges
more than 5000 meters at night the
analog numerical ballistic computer
makes it possible to automate the fire
control and to automatically introduce
Corrections that take into account
dynamic meteorological and speed
characteristics of the target and those
or the tank itself using the combined
day/night sight the commander can make
operative all-day observation of the
terrain make target designation and fire
from the gun the coaxial machinegun
the anti-aircraft mount engaged air
targets at ranges up to 2,000 meters and
against land targets up to 1600 meters
the gun loading is automated
installation of the bus'll type auto
loader shortens the tank group to 3 men
thanks to that arrangement of the
ammunition
the time needed for loading is shortened
and the chopped-off possibility is
provided the survivability after combat
damages is increased the fired cartridge
is automatically ejected thanks to that
the gas content and the fighting
compartment is decreased in addition to
the ammunition which is placed in the
auto loader there is an additional
ammunition stored near the fire
compartment bulkhead a set of additional
protection with explosive reactive
Armour for the front hull and turret
elements is offered in order to increase
their protection level the hull sides
can be covered with shields the
explosive reactive Armour being
installed in their front parts the
installed set increases the protection
level 2.5 times at least the improved
firefighting equipment with improved
optical and thermal sensors is offered
for modernization of the tank speed of
response of the new system exceeds 40
times that of the basic tank to enable
the tank to act in the contaminated
areas it is equipped with a radiation
and chemical agent detector which
informs the tank crew about presence of
toxic and radioactive agents outside the
tank and together with the filter
ventilation unit prevents penetration of
contaminated air and radioactive dust in
the crew compartment by creating
overpressure the optronic countermeasure
system which makes it possible to detect
the fact of the laser rangefinder
operation to fire small grenades and to
set an aerosol screening that decreases
the possibility for the enemy to aim
accurately with the help of the laser
rangefinder and hides the tank in the
optical and radio balance is offered for
modernization of the tanks the
automobile type a road signalling system
is offered to move tanks on the roads
intended for general use
all other constituent parts that are
offered for modernization of the tanks
have proved their reliability and
functional fitness by being used in
various climatic zones and are produced
serially the offered measures make it
possible to increase the combat and
technical level of modernized tanks and
bring them to the maximum to the level
of modern tanks